# PythonChess
A game of chess in the terminal, coded using OOP practices in vanilla Python.

This is unfinished due to time constraints. I will be planning on coming back to this at another point in time, but for now it is too complex for me with my current abilities. I have gotten the program to almost 2000 lines of functioning code, and it is almost complete. However, there are various bugs that are difficult to address as I didn't plan this project as well as I should have done. Even at it's current state, I am proud of the code, as it gave me a great starting point into using my problem solving skills in a practical situation but it may have been too ambitious for my current skillset. After coding this program for around 2 months on and off, it is clear that I need to move on from this for now, as I want to learn new software development skills which may be more beneficial to me. Though the end result isn't what I had hoped for, the practice that this gave me was unparalleled and my problem solving skills have improved hugely. You may see that throughout the program, I found more efficient ways to combat similar problems, leading to me scrapping parts of the code to optimise it for future use.

I have now learnt how important it is to plan something like this from the start, and to take small steps at a time to allow for more efficient debugging. More importantly this reinforced my idea that the end result doesn't necessarily matter whilst I am learning, but the steps taken and the lessons learnt are what's crucial to improving as a Software Engineer.
